I/NFM Bulkload Utility

The Bulkload utility is a separate utility that does not appear 
on either user interface menu. This utility lets you load large 
numbers of files into an environment at a single time. This utility 
must be run on the server machine under the nfm administrator's
account.

Before you can execute this utility, you must make sure that 
the catalog the items will be added to and the storage area(s) 
the files will be checked in from and to exist within I/NFM. 
Also make sure that all the files exist under one main directory 
path defined by your storage areas. (Files may exist in
subdirectory under the main directory path).

NOTE:

The I/NFM Bulkloader does not handle microstation reference file 
set assemblies. Microstation files may be added and checked in, 
but no sets will be created! To create the microstation set, enter
another I/NFM interface, check out the main design file, and check
it back in. This checkin should create the microstation set.

1.  To use the bulkload utility, you must exit I/NFM, and key
    the following:

    /usr/ip32/nfm/bin/Nfmbulk

    The system prompts you to select a server and environment then
    the Log In To I/NFM form appears.  Log into the utility the
    same way you log into the alphanumeric interface, using the
    administrative login and password.  Then select the <PF1> key to
    accept the information. 

    The bulkload utility menu appears at the top of the screen.

    The options on the Utility menu are:

    Display Storage Areas
    Display Working Areas
    Display Catalog
    Display Items
    Bulkload
    Debug
    LOGOUT

2.  Use the arrow keys to highlight an option, then press <Return> 
    to accept it. 

3.  Display Storage Areas -- This option displays all valid I/NFM
    storage areas.  You can select a storage area from the list to
    make active or press <PF3> to exit the listing.

4.  Display Working Areas -- This option displays a list of valid 
    I/NFM working areas.  Press <PF3> to exit the listing. 

5.  Display Catalogs -- This option displays a list of I/NFM
    catalogs to bulkload to.  Select a catalog from the listing or
    <PF3> to exit from the listing.

6.  Display Items -- This option displays a listing of items within 
    the active catalog.  Press <PF3> to exit the listing.

7.  Bulkload -- This option lets you bulkload files into the I/NFM 
    database.  When you select this option and there is no active 
    catalog, you are prompted to select a catalog to bulkload
    into.

    a.  The system prompts you to select a storage area.  Use the
        arrow keys to highlight the storage area name where the
        files currently reside. Then select the <PF1> key to accept
        the information. 

    b.  The system prompts you to verify or modify the information
        displayed.  You can modify the file revision, the maximum
        file version, the default file type, the default flag
        setting, or the bulkload output filename.  When you have
        verified the information and made any needed modification,
        select the <PF1> key to accept the form. 

    c.  The system prompts you to decide if you only want to bulk
        load the files in the directory path only or if you want to
        bulkload all the file in the default directory path and all
        subdirectories.  Select your choice and accept the form. 

        The system displays a list of files in the active working
        area that are available to be bulkloaded.  The description
        field contains the source path name for the bulkloaded data.

	NOTE:

	The ITEM NAMES of the new items will be the filenames of the
        files in the designated working area. 
        
    d.  Use the arrow keys to verify that all the files you want to 
        bulkload are listed.  Select the <PF1> key to accept the
        information. 

        The system prompts you to select an access control list that
        will be associated with each item being bulkloaded.

    e.  If there is more that one item workflow loaded into the
        I/NFM system, the system will prompt you to select an access
        control list that will be associated with each item being
        bulkloaded.  Select the access control list by highlight it
        and pressing the <Enter> key.  Select the <PF1> key to
        accept the information. 

    f.  The system will display a list of valid storage areas to bulk
        load the files into.  Select the storage area by
        highlighting it and pressing the <Enter> key.  Select the
        <PF1> key to accept the information.

        The selected files are bulkloaded into the active storage
        area.  When the bulkload is complete a listing of all the
        files Add and Check In Status and the Successful Completion
        message will be displayed.  Press <PF1> or <PF3> to clear
        the listing. 

8.  Debug -- This option creates debug on any of the above options 
    when executed.  The debug must be turned on before you execute 
    any of the other commands.  When you select this option you are 
    prompted to turn the debug on or off.  Select the on option and 
    you will be prompted to create nfm, sql, net, mem, or err debug.
    The only debug option that are required are nfm and sql.  You 
    can then chose to have the debug display to the console to be 
    written to a file.  If you are sending the debug to a file, type
    in the full pathname of the location of the file.  When you have
    finished, select <PF1> to accept the information and being the 
    debug or select <PF3> to exit the form without generation any
    debug.

9.  Logout -- This option exits the Nfmbulk menu.  
