Accessing and Using I/NFM

Before you can work with the I/NFM software, you first have to
log onto the system. Once you have logged onto the system, there
are two ways to access the I/NFM software. You can use a vt100
window in a standard CLIX environment, or you can access I/NFM
or any other application through Looking Glass.

Accessing I/NFM in a vt100 Window

Once the I/NFM software is loaded and initialized, you are ready
to become familiar with using the software.  Once you have logged
onto the system, you must choose to operate using one of the user
interfaces (forms interface, alphanumeric interface, or command-line
interface) provided  with I/NFM.  You can select the forms interface
from any Clipper-based workstation that has the NFMfileserver
and user interface loaded; or you can select the alphanumeric
interface from either a Clipper-based workstatsion, through a
vt100 window created on a PC, or any other workstation that is
equipped with the NFMfileserver and user interface. The command-line
interface only includes a subset of the  I/NFM commands, and can
be accessed from a workstation or PC.

Follow the steps below to access the software in the interface
of your choice.

Forms Interface

The I/NFM forms interface can be activated by keying in
/usr/ip32/nfm/bin/Nfmfi -A at the unix prompt.  The -A option
activates the administrative panel menu, which contains all I/NFM
commands.  If this option is not used, an end-user menu containing
only non-administrative commands appears.

The I/NFM forms interface login form appears.  The cursor should
be active on the server name field.  Key in the  correct server
name or use the list button to the right of  the field to display
a list of valid I/NFM server and select  a server from the list.

The administrator should use the same username and password defined
during the I/NFM initialization. The other I/NFM users should
use the username and password  assigned to them by the administrator.

Key in your login and associated password and press the  <Return>
key to accept the information.

Key in the correct environment name or use the list button  to
the right of the field to display a list of valid I/NFM  environments
and select an environment from the list.

When all fields are filled in, select the Exit and Save button
at the top of the form.

Once you have successfully logged into I/NFM, the I/NFM Main form
appears, with six menu buttons, and single access buttons across
the top of the form.  If you select one of the six menu buttons
on the upper right of the screen, the next level of menu buttons
are activated.

If you want to select a single command without going through the
menu stack, use the single access buttons across the top of the
I/NFM Main form.  These buttons provide a fast access to frequently
used commands.  The I/NFM Main form remains on your screen as
long as the software is activated, and is used to interact with
I/NFM.  The following description explain functions of the form.

1.  Project Name -- This field contains the name of a project. 
    You can use the List button beside this field to view a list 
    of projects.  You can also select a project from this to listing.
    The Toggle button beside this field is used to toggle the
    project from active  to inactive.

2.  Catalog Name -- This field contains the name of the active
    catalog.  You can use the List button beside this field to view 
    a list of catalogs.  You can also select a catalog from this
    list to make active.

3.  Item/Set Name -- This field contains the name of the active
    item or set.  You can use the List button beside this field to
    view a list of items or sets in the active catalog.  You can
    also select an item or set from this list to make active.

4.  Revision -- This field contains the name of the current revision
    of the active item or set.  You can use the List button beside
    this field to view a list of revisions on the active item or
    set.  You can also select a revision from this list to make
    active. 

5.  Search Criteria -- This field contains the name of a search
    criteria.  You can use the List button beside this field to view
    a complete list of defined search criterias.  You can also select
    a search criteria from this to list to make active. The Toggle
    button beside this field is used to toggle the search criteria
    from active to inactive.

6.  Sort Criteria -- This field contains the name of a sort criteria.
    You can use the List button beside this field to view a complete
    list of defined sort criterias.  You can also select a sort criteria
    from this to list to make active. The Toggle button beside this
    field is used to toggle the sort criteria from active to inactive.

7.  Working Area -- This field contains the name of the active
    working area.  You can use the List button beside this field
    to view a list of working areas.  You can also select a working
    area from this list to make active.

8.  Storage Area -- This field contains the name of the active
    storage area.  You can use the List button beside this field
    to view a list of storage areas.  You can also select a storage
    area from this list to make active.

9.  Node Name -- This field contains the name of the active node.
    You can use the List button beside this field to view a list
    of nodes.  You can also select a node from this list to make
    active.

10. User Name -- This field contains the name of the active user.
    You can use the List button beside this field to view a list
    of users.  You can also select a user from this list to make
    active.

11. Workflow Name -- This field contains the name of the active
    workflow.  You can use the List button beside this field to view
    a list of workflows.  You can also select a workflow from this
    list to make active.

12. ACL Name -- This field contains the name of the active acl.
    You can use the List button beside this field to view a list
    of acls.  You can also select a acl from this list to make active.

Manipulating Forms

When you select commands that display information, that information
is displayed in smaller forms that appear to the left of the main
form.  Other commands that require input will display another
form on top of the previous display form. All forms are colapsable.
There are four buttons in the upper right corner of the forms.
To dismiss the form without entering and saving any data, select
the Quit button.  

To accept the data entered and allow additional information to
be input, select the Run button

To select all options listed on the form, select the Select All
button.

To access on-line help, select the Help button.

You can use the vertical and horizontal scroll bars to display
additional information.

Exiting I/NFM Forms Interface

To exit the I/NFM forms interface, you simply need to select the
Exit button on the row of buttons at the top of the screen.

Alphanumeric Interface 

Once you have logged onto the system, you can activate the I/NFM
alphanumeric interface software by keying in
/usr/ip32/nfm/bin/Nfmalpha -A.  The -A option activates the
administrative panel menu, which contains all I/NFM commands. If
this option is not used, the default panel menu appears, which is an
end-user menu containing only non-administrative commands.

The server connection information appears each time you activate
the alphanumeric interface.  Use the arrow keys to highlight the
server name.  Press the <Enter> key to select the server name,
and the <PF1> key to accept it.  The environment information form
appears.  Use the same procedures for selecting a server to select
an environement. When you have selected and accepted your environment,
you are then prompted for your login and password into I/NFM.
Key in your login and associated password, and select the <PF1>
key to accept the information.

The I/NFM menu appears

Notice that on the top line of the menu, each option (except LOGOUT)
has a diamond shape just to the right of it. The diamond means
that this option is a command group, and if you select it, a lower
level menu appears.

The second line of the menu displays information about the option
which is highlighted in the top line. In this case, the second
line tells you that the Administrator Operations (Administrator)
include Node, Storage Area, Catalog, User and Utility options.
If you select the Administrator option, these administrator operations,
in addition to a EXIT option, appear on the first line of the
next menu.

If no diamond appears, the option is a command. If a command is
highlighted on the top line of a menu, its full command name appears
in the second line.

In this document, the path for a command is illustrated by stacking
the applicable levels of menus, with the appropriate option
highlighted. 

To select the List Nodes Known to I/NFM command, select the
Administrator option from the top-level menu, Node from the
second-level menu, and Display from the third-level menu.

Selecting Commands

There are two ways to select an option from the displayed menu:

You can use the left and right arrow keys to highlight the option.
When the option you want is highlighted, select it by pressing
the <Return> key

                       OR

You can key in the name of the option. The option name can be
abbreviated as long as you key in enough characters to make it
unique. For example, if the first letter of an option is different
from the first letter of the other options, you only have to key
in that letter to select the option. If, however, multiple options
of a displayed menu begin with the same letter, key in enough
of the option name to make it unique.

If the option you select is a command group, the next lower-level
menu appears. If the option you select is a command, the command
is activated. To move to higher-level menus, select the EXIT option
on each menu (or key in a unique portion of the option name) until
you reach the level you want.

Note: If you select an option by keying in the option name or a
      unique portion of it, you must press the <Return> key after
      the key-in.

Understanding the Screen Information Line

The screen information lines appear in reverse image immediately
below a menu.  The screen information lines are found where the
active data is displayed,  such as catalog and item names. It
is also where messages about the software, its operations, and
errors appears.  Notice the NFM: Successful Completion message
in this example.

Using Menus and Forms

You interact with the I/NFM software through menus (described
above) and forms. To use these menus and forms, you need to understand
the functions of several keys.

Arrow keys -- These keys can be used to move from one field
of a menu or form to another.

<Return> key -- This key is used to select highlighted options
on a menu. It is also used after any key-in.

<Enter> key -- This key is used to select and underline entries
in a list.

<PF1> key -- This key is used to exit a form, save the information,
and execute the requested operation.

<PF2> key -- This key is used to make a print file of the information
listed on the screen.

<PF3> key -- This key is used to exit a form without saving the
information.

<PF4> key -- This key is used to select an entire form and all
listed items.

<Ctrl> d -- This combination will let you page down, one page
at a time, on a listing.

<Ctrl> u -- This combination will let you page up one page at
a time.

<Ctrl> p# -- On a listing form, this combination will let you
page directly to a specific page by indicating the page number
following a <Ctrl> p.

Defining Active Data

There are two ways to define active data in the alphanumeric interface
to I/NFM.

1.  You can select the I/NFM listing command corresponding to that
    data, then select from the list.  For example, if you wanted to
    change the active catalog, you could select the Display List of
    Catalogs command, select a catalog name from the list by using
    the up and down arrow keys to highlight the catalog name,
    pressing the <Enter> key to underline the catalog name, and 
    press the <PF1> key to accept it.

2.  You can select the Retrieve Default Active Data command, and
    key in the data that you want to be active by default every time
    you access the alphanumeric interface to I/NFM.

Exiting I/NFM Alphanumeric Interface

To exit I/NFM, select the EXIT option of each menu until you reach
the top-level menu.  Press the right arrow key until the LOGOUT
option of the top-level menu highlights.  Press the <Return> key
to select the option.  I/NFM exits, and your original log-in prompt
reappears.

Accessing I/NFM from Looking Glass

Looking Glass is a desktop manager that lets you work in a CLIX
environment using windows and icons rather than complex command
languages. You can use Looking Glass icons and windows to perform
any function that can be executed in a standard CLIX environment,
such as running applications, programs or managing your files
and directories.

To access I/NFM from Looking Glass, follow these steps:

1.  Key in lg at the CLIX prompt.

2.  From Looking Glass, open a window to /usr/bin.

3.  From the /usr/bin window, use the scroll bars to scroll through
    the icons, until you find the I/NFM icon.  There is also an icon
    to activate the I/NFM Alphanumeric interface.

4.  Double tap the mouse button on the I/NFM icon.

5.  Once I/NFM is accessed through Looking Glass, the I/NFM Server
    form appears.  Log into the software following the same procedures
    as you would for logging into the software through a vt100 window.

Note: For more information on using Looking Glass, see the Looking
      Glass User's Guide, or Looking Glass on-line Help.  You can
      access Looking Glass on-line Help by selecting the Help option
      from the Show pulldown menu in the Global window. 
