I/NFM Workflow Interface
------------------------
 
General Characteristics
 
The Workflow Interface is a forms interface to I/NFM workflows and commands.
The workflow interface lets the administrator:
 
o Display information about existing commands, add new commands, or delete
  unused commands
 
o Display information about existing workflows 
 
o Create a new item workflow from scratch or create a new item workflow based
  on an existing item workflow.
 
o Modify an existing item workflow. (If the workflow is currently usable or
  has an access control list associated with it, new states cannot be added.)
 
o Load a user-defined item workflow from an ascii file
 
o Delete an unused item workflow
 
Accessing the Workflow Interface
 
Access the I/NFM workflow interface by keying in the following:
 
    /usr#/ip32/nfm/bin/Nfmwff
 
The Login to NFM form appears.
 
    Type in the username and password of an I/NFM administrator and press the
    <Return> key.  Type in the environment name or use the list button to the
    right of the field and select a environment from the list.  When you have
    finished, select the Exit and Save button. 
 
    The Workflow Interface main form appears.
 
The Workflow Interface Main Form
 
This interface is similar to the I/NFM Forms interface. It consists of:
 
  A bar menu - the commands across the top of the main form
  A panel menu - the commands to the right of the main form
  An active workflow field - contains the name of the active workflow
  A listing area - for listings as a result of the various listing commands
  A message strip - for error messages and informational messages
 
The Bar Menu Commands
 
The command buttons on the bar menu are:
 
  o Display Workflows -- This command displays a list of all workflows known
    to the I/NFM system.  This display will show the workflow name,
    description, acl and state.
 
  o Display States -- This command displays all known states for the active
    workflow.  This display will show state name, description, signoff
    information, and transition information. 
 
  o Display Classes -- This command displays all know classes for the active
    workflow.  This display will show only the class names. 
 
  o Display Transitions -- This command displays a list of all transitions for
    the active workflow.  This display will show the transition and command
    names, from and to states, transition success and failure logging, and
    notification status to the acl users. 
 
  o Display Class Access to Transitions -- This command displays a list of all
    class access to specific transitions for the active workflow.  This
    display will show the class name, transition name, and from and to states. 
 
  o Help -- This command displays help information for operating the workflow
    interface. 
 
  o Exit -- The Exit command exits the workflow interface.
 
The Panel Menu Commands
 
  o Workflow
 
    - Define Workflow
 
        This command allows a user to create a new item workflow from scratch
        or based on an existing item workflow. It also allows a user to modify
        most aspects of an existing workflow. (There is an entire section on
        the use of this command.)
 
    - Load Workflow
 
        This command allows a user to load a new item workflow from an ascii
        file. It requires that the ascii file be located on the server. The
        user must enter the full path to the ascii file on the server.
 
    - Delete Workflow
 
        This command allows a user to delete a workflow that is not being used
        (no ACLs are associated with the workflow).
 
    - Display Workflows
 
        This command displays all I/NFM workflows and information about the
        workflows. It is the same command as on the bar menu.
 
o Usr Com
 
    - Add Commands
 
        This command allows a user to add a new command to I/NFM. These
        commands will generally be the "Make Transition" commands used to set
        up transitions. (They are not true I/NFM commands). There is a section
        on this command.

    - Delete Commands
 
        When you select the Delete Commands from Workflow command, the Delete
        Commands from I/NFM form appears.
 
        Select the commands from the list that you want to delete. You can
        only delete commands that are not being used by any workflow
        definition.  A command is being used by a workflow definition if there
        has  been a transition created using that command.  To delete the
        command, all transitions created in all workflow definitions must be
        removed.
 
    - Display Commands
 
        When you select the Display Commands in Workflow command, a list of
        all commands are displayed if there is no active workflow. It there is
        an active workflow, only those commands that are used by that workflow
        are displayed.  
 
  o Define Server Debug
 
      This command allows the user to turn on debug.
 
The Add Commands Command
 
This command allows a user to add a command to I/NFM. The fields and options
on this form are described as follows:
 
  o Command Name -- This field is used to enter a new command name.  The
    command names must be unique and are restricted to a character limit of
    100.   
 
  o Application -- This field is used to enter an application name.  You can
    also select the list indicator to the right of this field to view a list
    of applications, then select from the list. If you do not select an
    application name, the system will default to "NFM".
 
  o Entity -- This field is used to enter an entity for the command name.  You
    can also select the list indicator to the right of this field to view a
    list of possible entities, then select from the list.  If you do not
    select an entity, the system will default to the entity "I" (NFMITEM).
    There are only three valid entity types to choose from.  "I" (NFMITEM),
    which will cause the each item workflow to be scanned to verifiy that this
    is a valid command for that particular workflow, "D" (NOCHECK), which will
    not cause a check at all to verify that the command is valid, and "N"
    (NFMNOENTITY), which will cause all workflows known to the I/NFM system to
    be scanned to verify that the command is valid. 
 
  o Transition Command -- Selete the toggle button to determine is this
    command is to be used  as a transition command.
 
  o Add Command -- Select this button to add the command. If the command is
    successful, it is displayed in the column of command names at the top of
    the form. 
 
    Once the command has been successfully added to I/NFM, you can access this
    command through a workflow by adding a transition to the workflow using
    this command.
 
The Define Workflow Command
 
The "Define Workflow" command is broken up into four parts. Each part of the
workflow definition is contained on a different form. The forms are numbered
and consist of:
 
    Form 1 - Workflow information form
    Form 2 - Class and State definition form
    Form 3 - Transition definition form
    Form 4 - Class Access for Transitions form
 
There are four buttons in the upper right corner of each form. These buttons
allow the user to identify the current form, move to a different form, cancel
the "Define Workflow" command, and exit the command and save the changes.
 
  Form identification button - A number that identifies the current form 
  Form scroll buttons - This is actually two buttons
  - Up arrow - Moves to a prior form (for example, if current form is "4",
    moves to "3". If the current form is "1", move will be to "4")
  - Down arrow - Moves to the next form (for example, if current form is "3",
    moves to "4". If the current form is "4", move will be to "1"). 
  Cancel button - From any form, cancels the command and does not save changes
  Exit and Save - From any form, exits the command and saves all changes
 
All changes made while in a "Define Workflow" session are kept in local memory
until the changes are saved when the user exits (Exit and Save) any form. All
changes are discarded if the user cancels from any form.
 
You can create a user-defined workflow in phases.  In other words, once you
begin the definition of a new workflow, you are not required to complete that
definition in one session.
 
You may create a new workflow or modify an existing workflow with this
command. If there is an active workflow when the command is selected, you will
be modifying that workflow. If there is no workflow active when the command is
selected, you will be creating a new workflow. To remove an active workflow
from the main form, edit the workflow name to be blank.
 
Form 1 - Workflow information form
 
  This is the first form in the workflow definition and consists of the
  following fields:
 
  o Workflow Name -- This field is for the workflow name.  The workflow name
    must be unique and no longer than 20 characters. If an existing workflow
    is being modified, this field cannot be changed.
 
  o Workflow Description -- This field is used to describe the workflow. You
    can key in a user-defined description up to 40 characters in length, or
    modify the description of an existing workflow. 
 
  o Copy an Existing Workflow -- This field is used to select a workflow to
    copy. You can only copy a workflow if you are creating a new workflow. 
 
  When you are satisfied with the workflow name and description, use the
  scroll button at the top of the form to scroll to one of the remaining three
  Workflow Definition forms. 
 
Form 2 - Class and State definition form
 
  The second form in the Workflow Definition is the Class and State Definition
  form. This form is used to define class and state information. If an
  existing workflow is being modified or a workflow has been copied, data will
  be retrieved from the database and loaded into the form. 
 
  The class section
 
    The class section is the upper part of the form. It consists of the
    following:
 
    o Class listing -- This is a list of existing classes
 
    o Class name -- This is the name of the class
 
    o Add Class button -- This button allows you to add a new class
 
    o Delete Class button -- This button allows you to delete an existing
      class
 
    To modify a class name, you should
 
      o select the class from the list of classes
      o edit the name
 
      When <return> is hit, the class name will automatically be updated.
 
    To add a class, you should
 
      o make certain that no class is selected from the list of classes
      o key in the new class name
      o select the "Add Class" button
 
      The class will be added
 
    To delete a class, you should
 
      o select the class from the list of classes
      o select the "Delete Class" button
 
      If the class has no class access defined, the class will be removed. If
      there is class access for the class, an error will result and you must
      remove all class access (Form 4) before the class can be deleted.

  The state section
 
    The state section is the lower part of the form. It consists of the
    following:
 
    o State listing -- This is a listing of the existing states
 
        I/NFM automatically includes two states, "DON'T CARE" and "NO CHANGE
        STATE" that have special meaning to the software. "From" states of
        "DON'T CARE" or "NO CHANGE STATE" specify that the command can be
        invoked regardless of the current state of the item as long as the
        user has access to the command.  "To" states of "DON'T CARE" or "NO
        CHANGE STATE" specify that the current state of the item is not to be
        changed. A "to" state of "DON'T CARE" also specifies that no activity
        logging or mail notificiation is to be done. 
 
    o State Name -- This field is used for the name of the state. The State
      name has a 40 character limit.  The state name must be unique with a
      workflow. 
 
    o Description -- This field is used as a description for the state. The
      Description for the state has a 40 character limit. 
 
    o Sequence Number -- This field is used to enter a sequence number for the
      state.  I/NFM will automatically generate a sequence number for this
      field.  The user can use the generated number or edit the number. The
      sequence number must be unique for each state.
 
        Sequence numbers will be used in a later release to better determine
        the order of the flow of an item through a workflow. For example,
        whether an item is being promoted or rejected.
 
    o Minimum No. Signoffs -- This field is used to enter the minimum number
      of signoffs required on the new state.  The default is zero and implies
      that signoffs are not allowed for that state.  If you want to require
      signoffs, edit this field to indicate the minimum number of signoffs
      allowed.  
 
    o Type of Signoff Toggle -- This toggle indicates the type of signoff to
      be implemented for the state. This is only valid if the minimum no. of
      signoffs is not zero. The toggles indicate that all signoff users must
      signoff before the item can be transitioned (Mandatory) or that a
      majority of users must signoff before the item can be transitioned
      (Majority).
 
    o Transition From Toggle -- This toggle determines if a transition can be
      made from the state.  
 
    o Transition To Toggle -- This toggle determines if a transition can be
      made to the state.  
 
    o Add State button -- This button allows you to add a new state
 
    o Delete State button -- This button allows you to delete an existing
      state

    To modify a state, you should
 
      o select the state from the list of states
      o edit the state information
 
      When <return> is hit or a toggle is selected, the state information will
      automatically be updated.
 
    To add a state, you should
 
      o make certain that no state is selected from the list of states
      o key in the new state information 
      o select the "Add State" button
 
      If the workflow is not in use, the state will be added. States cannot be
      added to active workflows (those that have an ACL associated)
 
    To delete a state, you should
 
      o select the state from the list of states
      o select the "Delete State" button
 
      If the state is not being referenced by any transition, the state will
      be removed. If the state is being referenced by a transition(s), the
      transition(s) must be removed (Form 3). Before a transition can be
      removed, all class acces to the transition must be removed (Form 4).
 
    When you complete the form, select the scroll button at the top of the
    form to proceed to the next Workflow Definition form.
 
Form 3 - Transition definition form
 
  The third form in the Workflow Definition is the Define Transitions form.
  This form lets you add, modify, and delete transitions in the workflow.  
 
  There are some "commands" in I/NFM that are not real commands, but are used
  to specify a transition used during Make Transition. In order to handle
  forced transitioning (the user moving the item to a new state) in the same
  manner as other command access, I/NFM includes these commands in the command
  table and refers to them in the transition section of a workflow definition.
  If a command does not exist in the commands table, it must be added (through
  the "Add Commands" command) before it can be included in an item workflow. 
 
  When manipulating workflow transitions it is important to remember the
  following information:
 
    - The combination of transition name and from state must be unique.     
    - The combination of command name, from state and to state must be unique.
    - Transitions that are being used in a class access definition cannot be
      deleted. 
 
  The transition form consists of the following:
 
  o Transition list -- This is a listing of all transitions in the workflow

  o Transition Name -- This field is used for the name of the transition. 
 
  o Command list -- This is a listing of all commands available for creating a
    transition.
 
  o From State -- This is the state that the item must be in for the
    transition to be used.
 
  o To State -- This is the state that an item will be moved to as a result of
    the transition (command) being executed.
 
  o Log On Success -- This toggle determines whether activity logging occurs
    as a result of a successful transition.
 
  o Log On Failure  -- This toggle determines whether activity logging occurs
    as a result of an unsuccessful transition (but not due to the user having
    no access to the command).
 
  o Notify on Transition -- This toggle determines whether mail is sent to the
    users in the ACL when the transition is complete.
 
  o Add Transition -- Selection of this button adds a new transition (if the
    transition information is valid).
 
  o Delete Transition -- Selection of this button deletes a transition.
 
    To modify a transition, you should
 
      o select the transition from the list of transitions
      o edit the transition information
 
      When <return> is hit or a toggle is selected, the transition information
      will automatically be updated.
 
    To add a transition, you should
 
      o make certain that no transition is selected from the list of
        transitions
      o select a command that will be used from the list of commands
      o key in the new transition name
      o select the transition information
      o select the "Add Transition" button
 
      The transition will be added
 
    To delete a transition, you should
 
      o select the transition from the list of transitions
      o select the "Delete Transition" button
 
      If the transition has no class access associated with it, it will be
      deleted. If class access exists, it must be removed (Form 4) before the
      transition can be deleted.
 
    When you complete the form, select the scroll button at the top of the
    form to proceed to the next Workflow Definition form.
 
Form 4 - Class Access for Transitions form
 
  The fourth form in the Workflow Definition is the Define Class Access to
  Transitions form.  This form lets you review and define the class access to
  transitions. It has the following:
 
  o Class listing -- This is a listing of all classes in the workflow.
    Selection of a class causes all access to transitions for the class to be
    highlighted in the class access listing.
 
  o Transition listing -- This is a listing of all transitions. When a class
    is selected from the class listing, the transitions that the class has
    access to are highlighted. The user may toggle any transition on or off by
    putting a data point on the row.
 
  o Clear All Transitions button --  Select this button to clear all
    transition information highlighted in the columns from the selected class. 
 
  o Update Class Acess to Transitions button -- Select this button to accept
    all changes made to the class access to transitions. After changes are
    made to the transitions for a class, this button must be selected before
    the changes are kept.
 
  o Select All Transitions -- Select this button to add all of the transitions
    listed to the class access.  
 
  To add access to transitions for the selected class name, select the
  transition names from the list that appear in these column and then select
  the Update Class Access to Transition button at the bottom of the form.
 
Notes on adding signoffs to a workflow
 
  In order to assure that the proper control is maintained over an item
  requiring signoffs, a signoff state should be added for each signoff level
  required.  This resolves the problem of possibly having more than one path
  to a state, and the problem of controlling changes to an item while signoffs
  are occuring.  (Modifications should not be allowed while the signoff
  process is in progress). 
 
  Each user signing off on an item must belong to the ACL associated with the
  item.  Even though a user signing off on an item may not be directly
  involved in the development and manipulation of the item, the user must be
  able to copy the item in order to evaluate it.  For users that normally do
  not work with an item but who musst be able to review the item for signoff,
  it makes sense to add a new class of user that has limited access to the
  item.
 
Exiting the Workflow Interface
 
You can exit the Workflow Interface by selecting the Exit button on the bar
menu.
